% Testing Pandocket
% W. Caleb McDaniel 
% November 23, 2012

# Preface

I'm using this file to test out my new Python script. Since this is just a regular markdown file, I can include any markdown content just as I normally would.

# Lincoln Overturns Hunter's Proclamation

The below text is taken from <http://www.history.umd.edu/Freedmen/hunter.htm>.

Proclamation by the President
=============================

Washington [*D.C.*] this nineteenth day of May,
 in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-two

By the President of the United States of America.
 A Proclamation.

Whereas there appears in the public prints, what purports to be a
proclamation, of Major General Hunter, in the words and figures
following, to wit:

> Head Quarters Department of the South, 
> Hilton Head, S.C. May 9, 1862.
>
> General Orders N^o^ 11.–The three States of Georgia, Florida and South
> Carolina, comprising the military department of the south, having
> deliberately declared themselves no longer under the protection of the
> United States of America, and having taken up arms against the said
> United States, it becomes a military necessity to declare them under
> martial law. This was accordingly done on the 25^th^ day of April,
> 1862. Slavery and martial law in a free country are altogether
> incompatible; the persons in these three States–Georgia, Florida and
> South Carolina–heretofore held as slaves, are therefore declared
> forever free.
>
> (Official) David Hunter, 
> Major General Commanding.
>
> Ed. W. Smith,
>  Acting Assistant Adjutant General.

And whereas the same is producing some excitement, and misunderstanding;
therefore

I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, proclaim and
declare, that the government of the United States, had no knowledge,
information, or belief, of an intention on the part of General Hunter to
issue such a proclamation; nor has it yet, any authentic information
that the document is genuine– And further, that neither General Hunter,
nor any other commander, or person, has been authorized by the
Government of the United States, to make proclamations declaring the
slaves of any State free; and that the supposed proclamation, now in
question, whether genuine or false, is altogether void, so far as
respects such declaration.

I further make known that whether it be competent for me, as
Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy, to declare the slaves of any
State or States, free, and whether at any time, in any case, it shall
have become a necessity indispensable to the maintenance of the
government, to exercise such supposed power, are questions which, under
my responsibility, I reserve to myself, and which I cannot feel
justified in leaving to the decision of commanders in the field. These
are totally different questions from those of police regulations in
armies and camps.

On the sixth day of March last, by a special message, I recommended to
Congress the adoption of a joint resolution to be substantially as
follows:

*Resolved*, That the United States ought to co-operate with any State
which may adopt a gradual abolishment of slavery, giving to such State
pecuniary aid, to be used by such State in its discretion, to compensate
for the inconveniences, public and private, produced by such change of
system.

The resolution, in the language above quoted, was adopted by large
majorities in both branches of Congress, and now stands an authentic,
definite, and solemn proposal of the nation to the States and people
most immediately interested in the subject matter. To the people of
those States I now earnestly appeal– I do not argue, I beseech you to
make the arguments for yourselves– You can not if you would, be blind to
the signs of the times– I beg of you a calm and enlarged consideration
of them, ranging, if it may be, far above personal and partizan
politics. This proposal makes common cause for a common object, casting
no reproaches upon any– It acts not the pharisee. The change it
contemplates would come gently as the dews of heaven, not rending or
wrecking anything. Will you not embrace it? So much good has not been
done, by one effort, in all past time, as, in the providence of God, it
is now your high privilege to do. May the vast future not have to lament
that you have neglected it.

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand, and caused the seal of
the United States to be affixed.

Abraham Lincoln

# Lincoln's Preliminary Emancipation Proclamation

The Preliminary Emancipation Proclamation
=========================================

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA:

A PROCLAMATION.

I, ABRAHAM LINCOLN, President of the United States of America, and
commander-in-chief of the army and navy thereof, do hereby proclaim and
declare that hereafter, as heretofore, the war will be prosecuted for
the object of practically restoring the constitutional relation between
the United States and each of the states and the people thereof, in
which states that relation is or may be suspended or disturbed.

That it is my purpose, upon the next meeting of Congress, to again
recommend the adoption of a practical measure tendering pecuniary aid to
the free acceptance or rejection of all slave states, so called, the
people whereof may not then be in rebellion against the United States,
and which states may then have voluntarily adopted, or thereafter may
voluntarily adopt, immediate or gradual abolishment of slavery within
their respective limits; and that the effort to colonize persons of
African descent with their consent upon this continent or elsewhere,
with the previously obtained consent of the governments existing there,
will be continued.

That on the first day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand
eight hundred and sixty-three, all persons held as slaves within any
state or designated part of a state, the people whereof shall then be in
rebellion against the United States, shall be then, thenceforward, and
forever free; and the Executive Government of the United States,
including the military and naval authority thereof, will recognize and
maintain the freedom of such persons, and will do no act or acts to
repress such persons, or any of them, in any efforts they may make for
their actual freedom.

That the Executive will, on the first day of January aforesaid, by
proclamation, designate the states and parts of states, if any, in which
the people thereof, respectively, shall then be in rebellion against the
United States; and the fact that any State, or the people thereof, shall
on that day be, in good faith, represented in the Congress of the United
States by members chosen thereto at elections wherein a majority of the
qualified voters of such state shall have participated, shall, in the
absence of strong countervailing testimony, be deemed conclusive
evidence that such state, and the people thereof, are not then in
rebellion against the United States.

That attention is hereby called to an act of Congress entitled “An act
to make an additional article of war,” approved March 13, 1862, and
which act is in the words and figure following:

“*Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled*, That hereafter the following
shall be promulgated as an additional article of war, for the government
of the army of the United States, and shall be obeyed and observed as
such:

“ARTICLE –. All officers or persons in the military or naval service of
the United States are prohibited from employing any of the forces under
their respective commands for the purpose of returning fugitives from
service or labor who may have escaped from any persons to whom such
service or labor is claimed to be due, and any officer who shall be
found guilty by a court-martial of violating this article shall be
dismissed from the service.

“SEC. 2. *And be it further enacted*, That this act shall take effect
from and after its passage.”

Also to the ninth and tenth sections of an act entitled “An act to
suppress insurrection, to punish treason and rebellion, to seize and
confiscate property of rebels, and for other purposes,” approved July
17, 1862, and which sections are in the words and figures following:

“SEC 9. *And be it further enacted*, That all slaves of persons who
shall hereafter be engaged in rebellion against the Government of the
United States, or who shall in any way give aid or comfort thereto,
escaping from such persons and taking refuge within the lines of the
army; and all slaves captured from such persons or deserted by them, and
coming under the control of the Government of the United States; and all
slaves of such persons found *on* [or] being within any place occupied
by rebel forces and afterwards occupied by the forces of the United
States, shall be deemed captives of war, and shall be forever free of
their servitude, and not again held as slaves.

SEC. 10. *And be it further enacted*, That no slaves escaping into any
state, territory, or the District of Columbia, from any other state,
shall be delivered up, or in any way impeded or hindered of his liberty,
except for crime, or some offence against the laws, unless the person
claiming said fugitive shall first make oath that the person to whom the
labor or service of such fugitive is alleged to be due is his lawful
owner, and has not borne arms against the United States in the present
rebellion, nor in any way given aid and comfort thereto; and no person
engaged in the military or naval service of the United States shall,
under any pretence whatever, assume to decide on the validity of the
claim of any person to the service or labor of any other person, or
surrender up any such person to the claimant, on pain of being dismissed
from the service.”

And I do hereby enjoin upon and order all persons engaged in the
military and naval service of the United States to observe, obey, and
enforce, within their respective spheres of service, the act and
sections above recited.

And the Executive will in due time recommend that all citizens of the
United States who shall have remained loyal thereto throughout the
rebellion shall (upon the restoration of the constitutional relation
between the United States and their respective states and people, if
that relation shall have been suspended or disturbed) be compensated for
all losses by acts of the United States, including the loss of slaves.

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand, and caused the seal of
the United States to be affixed.

Done at the city of Washington this twenty-second day of September, in
the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-two, and of
the Independence of the United States the eighty-seventh.

ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

By the President: 
 WILLIAM H. SEWARD, *Secretary of State*.

